README.md, before:

# CopyPaste+

<img src="icons/banner.png" alt="CopyPaste+ banner" />

[![Top Language](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/Joe-Huber/CopyPastePlus)](https://github.com/Joe-Huber/CopyPastePlus)
[![Code Size](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/code-size/Joe-Huber/CopyPastePlus)](https://github.com/Joe-Huber/CopyPastePlus)
[![Last Commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/Joe-Huber/CopyPastePlus)](https://github.com/Joe-Huber/CopyPastePlus/commits/main)
[![Issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/Joe-Huber/CopyPastePlus)](https://github.com/Joe-Huber/CopyPastePlus/issues)
[![Forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/Joe-Huber/CopyPastePlus)](https://github.com/Joe-Huber/CopyPastePlus/network/members)
[![Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/Joe-Huber/CopyPastePlus)](https://github.com/Joe-Huber/CopyPastePlus/stargazers)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

Expand the functionality of copy/paste in Chrome. CopyPaste+ captures your copied text and gives you a history with favorites and usage counts, available right from the toolbar popup.


## Features

- Automatic capture of copied/cut text from pages and editable fields
- Popup history with sections:
  - Favorites (star items you care about)
  - Most Used (by copy count)
  - Recent Items (chronological)
- Click any item in the popup to copy it back to the clipboard
- Star toggle (☆/★) to mark favorites
- Clear non-favorites action to prune your history quickly
- Persistent storage using chrome.storage.local
- Settings page with following options:
  - Theme
    - System Default - Light - Dark
  - Truncate long items in the popup
  - Hiding certain selection sections (eg: Most Used, Most Recent, favorites)


## Installation (from source)

1. Clone this repository
2. Install dependencies
   - `npm install`
3. Build the extension
   - `npm run build`
4. Load into Chrome
   - Open `chrome://extensions`
   - Enable "Developer mode"
   - Click "Load unpacked" and select the repository root directory

An option for installing from the Chrome Web Store may be added in the future; dependent on demand and project
popularity.

## Usage

- Copy text as you normally do (keyboard shortcuts or menu) on regular web pages
- Click the CopyPaste+ toolbar icon to open the popup
- Click an item to copy it to your clipboard
- Click the star on an item to favorite/unfavorite it


Notes and limitations:
- Chrome restricts extension behavior on certain pages (e.g., `chrome://` pages, the Chrome Web Store, some PDF viewers, new tab, and other special URLs). Copy capture and/or popup copy may not function there.
- Copies can only be directly detected from a page or this extentsion, so copies from other extensions or from the url will not be detected.
- Clipboard behavior varies by page and context. The popup uses multiple strategies to write to the clipboard; if one path fails in a given context, another is attempted.

## Development

Requirements:
- Node.js LTS
- npm

Commands:
- Install deps: `npm install`
- Build: `npm run build`

Project structure (high level):
- `manifest.json` — Chrome MV3 manifest
- `background.ts` — background service worker
- `content.ts` — content script (listens to copy/cut)
- `popup.tsx`, `popup.html`, `popup.css` — popup UI (React)
- `dist/` — compiled JS bundles (generated)
- `webpack.config.js` — build configuration

Tips:
- Background/service worker logs: `chrome://extensions` → your extension → "Service worker" → Inspect
- Content script logs: open DevTools on a target page’s frame (not on restricted pages)
- If you modify sources, run `npm run build` and reload the extension


## Permissions rationale

- `storage` — store copy history and item metadata
- `clipboardWrite`, `clipboardRead` — improve clipboard interactions from allowed contexts
- `activeTab`, `scripting` — inject a small copy routine into the active tab as a fallback when direct popup clipboard writes are not available
- `host_permissions: <all_urls>` — allow content script to observe copy events across pages you visit

Privacy: CopyPaste+ does not send your data anywhere. All history is stored locally via `chrome.storage.local` and never leaves your machine.


## Troubleshooting

- I don’t see any captured copies
  - Ensure you’re testing on a normal HTTP/HTTPS page (not `chrome://*` or the Web Store)
  - Open the page console and look for content script logs
  - Reload the extension in `chrome://extensions` and refresh the page
- Clicking an item doesn’t copy
  - Some page contexts can block clipboard access. The popup tries direct write first, then falls back to injecting a copy routine into the active tab. Make sure a normal tab is active and focused
  - Check background logs in the Service Worker console for errors
- Moji-bake stars (e.g., `â˜†`)
  - Ensure `<meta charset="utf-8">` is present in `popup.html` (it is in this repo)
- Error in Chrome developer settings and nothing gets added from the clipbaord anymore
  - Reload the extentsion and make sure you are on a refreshed tab. If your tab is from before the extentsion's most recent change you made, the incorrect script will be injected and it won't work.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome!
- Open an issue for bugs and feature requests
- Fork, create a feature branch, and submit a pull request
- Keep PRs focused and include a brief description and testing notes
- Don’t commit build artifacts (`dist/`) or dependencies (`node_modules/`). The repo includes a `.gitignore` that ignores these

Ideas and TODOs:
- Make UI look better
- Search/filter in the popup
- Keyboard shortcuts
- Enable copying on pages that don't allow it


## License

This project is open source. See the `LICENSE` file for details.

Commit message:

docs: update limitations
remove unnesecary limitation (failed backup attempts), and added refresh needed if extentsion just installed and only on browser

README.md, after:

# CopyPaste+

<img src="icons/banner.png" alt="CopyPaste+ banner" />

[![Top Language](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/Joe-Huber/CopyPastePlus)](https://github.com/Joe-Huber/CopyPastePlus)
[![Code Size](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/code-size/Joe-Huber/CopyPastePlus)](https://github.com/Joe-Huber/CopyPastePlus)
[![Last Commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/Joe-Huber/CopyPastePlus)](https://github.com/Joe-Huber/CopyPastePlus/commits/main)
[![Issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/Joe-Huber/CopyPastePlus)](https://github.com/Joe-Huber/CopyPastePlus/issues)
[![Forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/Joe-Huber/CopyPastePlus)](https://github.com/Joe-Huber/CopyPastePlus/network/members)
[![Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/Joe-Huber/CopyPastePlus)](https://github.com/Joe-Huber/CopyPastePlus/stargazers)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

Expand the functionality of copy/paste in Chrome. CopyPaste+ captures your copied text and gives you a history with favorites and usage counts, available right from the toolbar popup.


## Features

- Automatic capture of copied/cut text from pages and editable fields
- Popup history with sections:
  - Favorites (star items you care about)
  - Most Used (by copy count)
  - Recent Items (chronological)
- Click any item in the popup to copy it back to the clipboard
- Star toggle (☆/★) to mark favorites
- Clear non-favorites action to prune your history quickly
- Persistent storage using chrome.storage.local
- Settings page with following options:
  - Theme
    - System Default - Light - Dark
  - Truncate long items in the popup
  - Hiding certain selection sections (eg: Most Used, Most Recent, favorites)


## Installation (from source)

1. Clone this repository
2. Install dependencies
   - `npm install`
3. Build the extension
   - `npm run build`
4. Load into Chrome
   - Open `chrome://extensions`
   - Enable "Developer mode"
   - Click "Load unpacked" and select the repository root directory

An option for installing from the Chrome Web Store may be added in the future; dependent on demand and project
popularity.

## Usage

- Copy text as you normally do (keyboard shortcuts or menu) on regular web pages
- Click the CopyPaste+ toolbar icon to open the popup
- Click an item to copy it to your clipboard
- Click the star on an item to favorite/unfavorite it


Notes and limitations:
- Chrome restricts extension behavior on certain pages (e.g., `chrome://` pages, the Chrome Web Store, some PDF viewers, new tab, and other special URLs). Copy capture and/or popup copy may not function there.
- Copies can only be directly detected from a page or this extentsion, so copies from other extensions or from the url will not be detected.
- Copies are only detected when the content script is active on a page. This means that if you install the extension and copy something on a page that was already open, it may not be captured until you refresh that page.
- Clipboard access is on the browser only, so copying from system apps (outside Chrome) will not be captured.

## Development

Requirements:
- Node.js LTS
- npm

Commands:
- Install deps: `npm install`
- Build: `npm run build`

Project structure (high level):
- `manifest.json` — Chrome MV3 manifest
- `background.ts` — background service worker
- `content.ts` — content script (listens to copy/cut)
- `popup.tsx`, `popup.html`, `popup.css` — popup UI (React)
- `dist/` — compiled JS bundles (generated)
- `webpack.config.js` — build configuration

Tips:
- Background/service worker logs: `chrome://extensions` → your extension → "Service worker" → Inspect
- Content script logs: open DevTools on a target page’s frame (not on restricted pages)
- If you modify sources, run `npm run build` and reload the extension


## Permissions rationale

- `storage` — store copy history and item metadata
- `clipboardWrite`, `clipboardRead` — improve clipboard interactions from allowed contexts
- `activeTab`, `scripting` — inject a small copy routine into the active tab as a fallback when direct popup clipboard writes are not available
- `host_permissions: <all_urls>` — allow content script to observe copy events across pages you visit

Privacy: CopyPaste+ does not send your data anywhere. All history is stored locally via `chrome.storage.local` and never leaves your machine.


## Troubleshooting

- I don’t see any captured copies
  - Ensure you’re testing on a normal HTTP/HTTPS page (not `chrome://*` or the Web Store)
  - Open the page console and look for content script logs
  - Reload the extension in `chrome://extensions` and refresh the page
- Clicking an item doesn’t copy
  - Some page contexts can block clipboard access. The popup tries direct write first, then falls back to injecting a copy routine into the active tab. Make sure a normal tab is active and focused
  - Check background logs in the Service Worker console for errors
- Moji-bake stars (e.g., `â˜†`)
  - Ensure `<meta charset="utf-8">` is present in `popup.html` (it is in this repo)
- Error in Chrome developer settings and nothing gets added from the clipbaord anymore
  - Reload the extentsion and make sure you are on a refreshed tab. If your tab is from before the extentsion's most recent change you made, the incorrect script will be injected and it won't work.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome!
- Open an issue for bugs and feature requests
- Fork, create a feature branch, and submit a pull request
- Keep PRs focused and include a brief description and testing notes
- Don’t commit build artifacts (`dist/`) or dependencies (`node_modules/`). The repo includes a `.gitignore` that ignores these

Ideas and TODOs:
- Make UI look better
- Search/filter in the popup
- Keyboard shortcuts
- Enable copying on pages that don't allow it


## License

This project is open source. See the `LICENSE` file for details.
